Blog: keycloak (#122)
JankariTech/blog: src/assets/Keycloak/oCIS-with-Keycloak.md

---
title: Keycloak With oCIS
authorName: Amrita Shrestha
authorAvatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54478846?s=100&v=4
authorLink: https://github.com/amrita-shrestha
createdAt: March 26, 2024
tags: ownCloud Infinite Scale, oCIS, oCIS-with-Keycloak, Keycloak
banner: https://blog.jankaritech.com/src/assets/keycloak/images/keycloak-with-ocis.png
---

> [In the previous blog](/src/assets/Keycloak/Keycloak.md), we explored the general functionality of Keycloak. In this current post, I will show how to setup of [oCIS](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/) with Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[In the previous blog](/src/assets/Keycloak/Keycloak.md), we explored the general functionality of Keycloak. In this current post, I will show how to setup [oCIS](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/) with Keycloak.
```

## oCIS With Keycloak

> Before we start, lets make sure following things get installed into your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we start, lets make sure following things are installed on your system.
```

      traefik.enable: true
      traefik.http.routers.ocis.tls: true
      traefik.http.routers.ocis.rule: PathPrefix(`/`)
      traefik.http.routers.ocis.entrypoints: ocis
      traefik.http.services.ocis.loadbalancer.server.port: 9200

  postgres:
    image: postgres:alpine
    volumes:
      - postgres_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: keycloak
      POSTGRES_USER: keycloak
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: keycloak

  keycloak:
    image: quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:24.0.1
    command: ["start-dev", "--proxy=edge"]
    environment:
      KC_DB: postgres
      KC_DB_URL: "jdbc:postgresql://postgres:5432/keycloak"
      KC_DB_USERNAME: keycloak
      KC_DB_PASSWORD: keycloak
      KC_FEATURES: impersonation
      KEYCLOAK_ADMIN: admin
      KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD: admin
    extra_hosts:
      - host.docker.internal:host-gateway
    labels:
      traefik.enable: true
      traefik.http.routers.keycloak.tls: true
      traefik.http.routers.keycloak.rule: PathPrefix(`/`)
      traefik.http.routers.keycloak.entrypoints: keycloak
      traefik.http.services.keycloak.loadbalancer.server.port: 8080
    depends_on:
      - postgres

volumes:
  postgres_data:
```

> Save above code in `compose.yaml` file locally and run docker command `docker compose up` in terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the above code in `compose.yaml` file locally and run docker command `docker compose up` in a terminal.
```

Docker compose serves three services:
- oCIS on `https://host.docker.internal:9200`
- Keycloak on `https://host.docker.internal:8443`
- Traefik dashboard on `http://host.docker.internal:8080/`

> ### Steps For Setting oCIS With Keycloak Manually

Reviewer 2: in your subtitle you write "... manually" - is this to contrast some steps that are executed through the script above?
if it's not either/or, but both and these are settings that need to be configured manually in any case, I suggest to change the title to something that's more descriptive

Author: if you have some idea please suggest I have nothing in my mind rather than manually

> ### Steps For Setting oCIS With Keycloak Manually

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Manual Steps For Setting Up oCIS With Keycloak
```
maybe put manual before steps if you want to put an emphasis on that the fact that these steps are done manually

```suggestion
### Further Steps For Setting Up oCIS With Keycloak
```
or remove it?

```suggestion
### Further Steps Of oCIS With Keycloak Setup
```
an other alternative...

Just pick what you think is most descriptive or come up with your own wording :)

1. Go to oCIS url: `https://host.docker.internal:9200/`
![oCIS](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-1.png)

> 2. Go to keycloak url: `https://host.docker.internal:8443/`

Author: this folder and file name . Should we need to that here also?

> 2. Go to keycloak url: `https://host.docker.internal:8443/`

Reviewer 2: If this instance refers to a variable from your code sample, use the same spelling as in the code, maybe with apostrophes to make sure the reader understands that this is the name of this variable. At all other instances I would consider Keycloak as a name and thus spell it in the same way throughout the blog post.

![keycloak](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-2.png)

3. Create new realm: `oCIS`
![create realm](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-1.png)
![create realm with name `oCIS`](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-2.png)

> > Note: Realm name should name with name provided in oCIS enviroment variable: `OCIS_OIDC_ISSUER: https://host.docker.internal:8443/realms/oCIS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: the realm name should be the name provided in the oCIS environment variable: `OCIS_OIDC_ISSUER: https://host.docker.internal:8443/realms/oCIS`
```

4. Add a new client:
![client registration](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-1.png)

- Client ID: `web`
![add client](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-2.png)

- Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`
![add root url](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-3.png)

5. Add realm roles:

- Role name: `ocisAdmin`
![add realm role](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-role.png)

> > Note: oCIS has defined role name that has been documented under [Automatic Quota Assignments](https://owncloud.dev/services/proxy/#automatic-role-assignments). So, we can't create role with random name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: oCIS has defined a role name that has been documented under [Automatic Quota Assignments](https://owncloud.dev/services/proxy/#automatic-role-assignments). So, we can't create the role with a random name.
```

6. Create a new user:

- Username: `admin` and other info
![create user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-1.png)
![add user information](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-2.png)

- Create password
![create password](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-3.png)
![setup password for user](//src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-4.png)

- Role Mapping: Assign `ocisAdmin` role
![assign role](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/assign-role-to-user-1.png)

![assign role to user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/asign-role-to-user-2.png)

7. Update `roles` Client scope: `Client Scopes` -> `roles`
- `Mappers` -> `realm roles` -> `Token Claim Name=roles`
![update-roles](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/update-roles.png)
> Note: oCIS default role_claim is 'roles'

8. Go to url `https://host.docker.internal:9200/` reload if already opened

> ![login oCIS with keycloak](//src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/ocis-keycloak-login.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![login to oCIS with keycloak](//src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/ocis-keycloak-login.png)
```

### Using JSON files

> Keycloak provides [Importing and Exporting Realms](https://www.keycloak.org/server/importExport) feature. If we have JSON configuration files then we can avoid setting services in keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak provides an [Importing and Exporting Realms](https://www.keycloak.org/server/importExport) feature. If we have JSON configuration files then we can avoid setting services in keycloak.
```

oCIS provides documentation to set up [oCIS with Keycloak](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/deployment/ocis_keycloak/) which uses JSON configuration. oCIS provides source code to deploy
[oCIS-with-Keycloak](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_keycloak).

In this blog post, we've talked about putting Keycloak and oCIS together. We've shown how to set them up using Docker Compose, making sure they work smoothly with Traefik.
We've also given step-by-step instructions on setting up oCIS with Keycloak manually, like making realms, adding clients and roles, and creating users.

> For those who like using JSON files, Keycloak lets you do that to set things up more easily. By following these tips, you can use Keycloak and oCIS together for better identity and access management in your projects.

Reviewer 2: In the conclusion you write that the reader can use the learnings from this blog for his/her own projects, however the examples were very specific to Keycloak and oCIS - it seems like there is a little gap. I assume some experts / experienced users can easily bridge that gap. However, if your target audience are "mid level" developers, then maybe some additional information about the steps above would be helpful; in particular not only explaining what you do but also why this matters. I guess this would help the reader to better understand each step and replicate them in their own projects.

---
title: Case Study About Integrating oCIS With Keycloak
authorName: Amrita Shrestha
authorAvatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54478846?s=100&v=4
authorLink: https://github.com/amrita-shrestha
createdAt: May 14, 2024

> tags: ownCloud Infinite Scale, oCIS, oCIS-with-Keycloak, Keycloak

Author: I am just doing what other blogs are doing. Not sure about that you are saying

> tags: ownCloud Infinite Scale, oCIS, oCIS-with-Keycloak, Keycloak

Reviewer 2: from my understanding, a tag can't contain an empty space like in "ownCloud Infinite Scale" (empty spaces between the words "ownCloud", "Infinite" and "Scale"). Having a look at tags in other blog posts, it seems like they usually use the hyphens like you applied for the "oCIS-with-Keycloak" tag. Anyway, you can just try and see what happens when you publish it with the tag as it is and if it doesn't get rendered properly change it afterwards...

banner: https://blog.jankaritech.com/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-with-Keycloak.png

[In the previous blog](/src/assets/Keycloak/Keycloak.md), we explored the general functionality of Keycloak. In this current post, I will show how to setup of the [oCIS](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/)(file-sync and share platform) with Keycloak.

> 

Author: Sorry, but my blog is about an alternative manual way to set up oCIS with Keycloak. My blog will be helpful for those who have some basic knowledge about keycloak and want to learn Keycloak with practical examples. There are other similar blogs that integrate Keycloak with Nextcloud, GitHub etc. The only difference is that, I use oCIS for integration.

> 

Author: I think this suites `Integrating oCIS With Keycloak` best for now lets not invest enormous amount of time on such thing

> 

Reviewer 2: Choosing a suitable title and a proper introduction are some very important aspect of a blog, because the readers usually determine by these two things if it's worth their time to read the rest of the blog :)

> 

Author: This blog is about integrating oCIS and Keycloak which seems clear by title. I like to keep it like this for now.

Docker compose serves three services:
- oCIS on `https://host.docker.internal:9200`
- Keycloak on `https://host.docker.internal:8443`
- Traefik dashboard on `http://host.docker.internal:8080/`

### Manual Steps For Setting Up oCIS With Keycloak
1. Go to oCIS url: `https://host.docker.internal:9200/`

![oCIS](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-1.png)

2. Go to Keycloak url: `https://host.docker.internal:8443/`

![keycloak](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-2.png)

3. Create new realm: `oCIS`

![create realm](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-1.png)
![create realm with name `oCIS`](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-2.png)
> Note: the realm name should be the name provided in the oCIS environment variable: `OCIS_OIDC_ISSUER: https://host.docker.internal:8443/realms/oCIS`

4. Add a new client:

![client registration](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-1.png)

- Client ID: `web`

![add client](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-2.png)

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Author: as you can see, the image keycloak has the keyword `Root URL`. I want to give readers a sense of similarities. Nothing much

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Reviewer 2: What about using `URL` then throughout your blog? Or is the UI itself inconsistent having other instances where `url` is used in the UI?

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Author: I want to keep a small url.

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Reviewer 2: What about opening an issue to point this out to them? It's no big thing but it would improve the User Experience. Maybe they gonna fix the Keycloak UI in the future :)

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Author: in future when I will free. I will make it, right now my hands are full of tasks. Let's not block this blog for such thing which is not under my control

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Reviewer 2: only takes 2 minutes :)

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/issues/new?assignees=&labels=kind%2Fenhancement%2Cstatus%2Ftriage&projects=&template=enhancement.yml

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Author: as i repeat please lets not blog this PR for this topic

> - Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

Reviewer 2: It's a suggestion about living out our value of quality, and it's up to you if you want to help Keyclock to improve their user experience and overall quality. According to our company values, we are committed to constantly improve the quality in every aspect of our work.

6. Create a new user:

- With `username: admin` and other informations:

![create user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-1.png)
![add user information](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-2.png)

- Create password

![create password](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-3.png)
![setup password for user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-4.png)

- Role Mapping: Assign `ocisAdmin` role

![assign role](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/assign-role-to-user-1.png)

![assign role to user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/asign-role-to-user-2.png)

7. Update `roles` Client scope: `Client Scopes` -> `roles`

- `Mappers` -> `realm roles` -> `Token Claim Name=roles`
![update-roles](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/update-roles.png)
> Note: oCIS default role_claim is 'roles'

8. Go to url `https://host.docker.internal:9200/` reload if already opened
![login to oCIS with keycloak](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-login.png)

> Enter `username: admin` and `password: admin` to login oCIS

Author: sounds odd to me using `multiple to` maybe we can leave as `to login oCIS`

> Enter `username: admin` and `password: admin` to login oCIS

Reviewer 2: maybe check with @phil-davis or the English teacher what is grammatically correct

6. Create a new user:

- With `username: admin` and other information:

![create user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-1.png)
![add user information](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-2.png)

- Create password

![create password](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-3.png)
![setup password for user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-user-4.png)

- Role Mapping: Assign `ocisAdmin` role

![assign role](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/assign-role-to-user-1.png)

![assign role to user](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/asign-role-to-user-2.png)

7. Update `roles` Client scope: `Client Scopes` -> `roles`

- `Mappers` -> `realm roles` -> `Token Claim Name=roles`
![update-roles](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/update-roles.png)
> Note: oCIS default role_claim is 'roles'

8. Go to url `https://host.docker.internal:9200/`, reload if already opened
![login to oCIS with keycloak](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-login.png)

> Enter `username: admin` and `password: admin` to log in oCIS

Reviewer 2: I still think that there is a "to" missing in this sentence (log in to sth), see https://github.com/JankariTech/blog/pull/122#discussion_r1601337686. Did you check this with @phil-davis or with the English teacher?

Reviewer 2: Maybe these links are useful to understand when a preposition is needed before an object in combination with login:
https://promova.com/confusing-words/log-in-login
https://promova.com/confusing-words/log-in-log-on

I'm sure the English teacher can explain it in more detail to you how this applies to your text.

> ### Setting Up oCIS With Keycloak Using JSON files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Setting Up oCIS With Keycloak Using JSON Files
```

> Keycloak provides an [Importing and Exporting Realms](https://www.keycloak.org/server/importExport) feature. If we have JSON configuration files then we can avoid setting services in Keycloak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keycloak provides an [Importing and Exporting Realms](https://www.keycloak.org/server/importExport) feature. If we have JSON configuration files, then we can avoid setting services in Keycloak.
```

oCIS provides documentation to set up [oCIS with Keycloak](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/deployment/ocis_keycloak/) which uses JSON configuration. oCIS provides source code to deploy

> [oCIS-with-Keycloak](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_keycloak).

Reviewer 2: Hyphens are mainly used in English for compound nouns, but it's quite uncommon to use them for a term such as "oCIS with Keycloak". See also how this is spelled in the official documentation by ownCloud: https://owncloud.dev/ocis/deployment/ocis_keycloak/

---
title: Integrating oCIS With Keycloak
authorName: Amrita Shrestha
authorAvatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54478846?s=100&v=4
authorLink: https://github.com/amrita-shrestha
createdAt: May 31, 2024
tags: ownCloud, oCIS, oCIS-with-Keycloak, Keycloak
banner: https://blog.jankaritech.com/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-with-Keycloak.png
---

[In the previous blog](/src/assets/Keycloak/Keycloak.md), we explored the general functionality of Keycloak.
In this blog, I demonstrate how we can integrate [oCIS](https://owncloud.dev/ocis/)(file-sync and share platform) with Keycloak using the Keycloak WebUI.

> Anyone interested in getting hands-on experience with Keycloak can read this blog.

Reviewer 2: Here is that tiny suggestion I had mentioned in the last [review](https://github.com/JankariTech/blog/pull/122#pullrequestreview-2095839723). I don’t know where it had gone… I guess I made some mistake when doing the review.

The English modal verb “can” means “to be able to do something” or “to be allowed to do something” (https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/learner-english/can)

I assume what you wanted to say has nothing to do with the ability or permission of the reader but rather something like: 

```suggestion
This benefits anyone who is interested in getting hands-on experience with Keycloak.
```

## Run Services
Make sure you've installed [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

Before setting up oCIS with Keycloak, it's essential to deploy both oCIS and Keycloak services. I'll describe how to achieve it with **docker compose**.
oCIS and Keycloak runs behind **Traefik** as reverse proxy. **Traefik** generates self-signed certificates for oCIS and Keycloak.

You have to create a **csp.yaml** file with the following contents:
```yaml
directives:
  child-src:
    - '''self'''
  connect-src:
    - '''self'''

>     # In contrary to bash and docker the default is given after the | character

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # In contrast to bash and docker the default is given after the | character
```

  The discovery endpoint is unavailable, which is why the web interface is inaccessible.

![oCIS](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-1.png)

2. Go to Keycloak url: `https://host.docker.internal:8443/`

![Keycloak](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/oCIS-Keycloak-UI-setup-2.png)

3. Create new realm:

![create realm](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-1.png)

- Realm name: `oCIS`
![create realm with name `oCIS`](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-2.png)
> Note: the realm name should be the name provided in the oCIS environment variable: `OCIS_OIDC_ISSUER: https://host.docker.internal:8443/realms/oCIS`

4. Add a new client:

![client registration](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-1.png)

- Client ID: `web`

![add client](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-2.png)

- Root URL: `https://host.docker.internal:9200`

![add root url](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/client-registration-3.png)

5. Add realm roles:

- Role name: `ocisAdmin`

![add realm role](/src/assets/Keycloak/images/oCIS-Keycloak/create-realm-role.png)

> > Note: oCIS has defined roles name that has been documented under [Automatic Quota Assignments](https://owncloud.dev/services/proxy/#automatic-role-assignments). So, we can't create the role with a random name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: oCIS has defined role names that have been documented under [Automatic Quota Assignments](https://owncloud.dev/services/proxy/#automatic-role-assignments). So, we can't create the role with a random name.
```
